First day of journalling. Really long overdue. Has been slacking and worrying about life in general the past 3 weeks. The fact that the trip has came to an end, and the thoughts and experiences that went through my mind, (not to mention the changes, and events that happened) really put myself in a weird spot. 

In fact, there hasn't been too much that has gone through my mind lately. There is no new ideas, nothing i wanted to say. Hopefully that will all change. 

I ve decided to start journalling simply because i am at an age, when memories have been less vivid, less memorable. Not to discredit all these happenings in the past few years. In fact they are so life changing that it sort of put a strain on everything i do, but that with age, everything just seem more "normal" when many of them arent. 

There has also been many conversations that happened in Berlin that I will need to take some time to chew on, reflect and follow through. I am slowly and steadily hoping to put downs these findings, feelings. 
Perhaps if i put them in an organized way, I will see the light through them. 

And hopefully it will lift this huge cloud over my head. 

For now, I will keep everything in journal. 
And some of these findings will be shown in [[System]] 
Lets make sure I follow through on this!

From tomorrow on, I will start to dig into my experience in Berlin, and EU. And slowly reflect on those issues. 
Also, to untangle all these #emotional and personal buggages that I have been bringing along. 




#daily



